README.md, before:

# Session 7 - GitHub Pages with Jekyll, more MAX8 with MIDI and introduction to sound synthesis with BEAP

## How are files stored on a computer?

## Save your old website and setup Jekyll with GitHub Pages
So far you have created your website using basic HTML (content) and CSS (styling). The code was saved in a file named ```index.html```, and it was saved in a repository named YourUserName.github.io. By default, GitHub will look for such a file in a repository of that name and then load it when you enter the URL ```https.YourUserName.github.io``` in your webbrowser.

Creating a website with basic HTML and CSS gives you a lot of flexibility, but it is a tedious work, therefore we go for a simpler route as of now. 

First, we will rename the repository of your website to archive it and then continue to use the Jekyll framework on a new repository of name YourUserName.github.io to create our blog. Jekyll has the advantage that you do not need to bother about formatting the content, it comes with default styling "out of the box". HTML is replaced by a simple language called Markdown. It consists of simple tags that describe the function of the content (i.e. headline, link, image, ...). For example, a HTML```<h2>title</h2>``` headline becomes ```## text``` in Markdown.

For creating a post, you will need to place each post into a separate file inside a folder called ```_posts```. There are naming rules for the file and each file starts with a so called *YAML frontmatter* containing information like the author's name, a category to search posts later and more. Afterwards you add your content, using Markdown.

Before you start I suggest that you check out an existing repository using Jekyll ([example](https://github.com/mibrs/mibrs.github.io) is the repo for this website here), check the contents of the folders and look inside the files containing the posts. You can also copy and paste content, in particular the YAML Frontmatter and then make the changes of your own post.

Let's get started.

### Step 1 - Archive your exisiting website
Just open the repository containing your website and then follow steps 1 to 4. You will save it in a new repository under a different name.

![Rename repository](221122RenameGhRepo.png)

You can still access your site with the URL ```https:YourUserName.github.io/NewRepositoryName```.

![Access Repo on Web](221122GhAccessRepoOnWeb.png)

### Step 2 - Create your new website
Now we generate our new website with Jekyll.

#### Step 2.1 Find the Jekyll theme minima on GitHub.
All the styling inside Jekyll is defined inside themes. We are using the theme minima. You find it [here](https://github.com/jekyll/minima)

![Jekyll Minima on GitHub](221122JekyllMinimaRepo.png)

#### Step 2.2 Fork ("copy") the repository with the theme to your own user account and name the repo ```YourUserName.github.io```

Make sure that you are logged into your own GitHub account. Then follow the images to
1. Create your **Folk** of the repository
2. Name it in the form ```YourUserName.github.io```.

**ATTENTION:** User your own UserName instead of ```mbbbraehler``` shown on the screenshot!

![Fork Minima](221122ForkMinima.png)

![Rename Fork](221122NameFolkGh.png)

#### Step 2.3 Configure GitHub to use Jekyll with your theme
Next, go back and open the repository, then choose Pages on the left side menu and make the entries as shown. Do not forget to click on ```Save``` once you are finished.

![Configure Gh Pages](221122ConfigureGhPages.png)

#### Step 2.4 Finished
Now you need to wait for some time (seconds to minutes) before the changes are updated on the GitHub servers and you can access your website. The website contains a lot of content that you do not want to keep. Wait for Step 3 before you start to clean up and make the site your own.


### Step 3 - Create your first post
Next, open [this](https://docs.github.com/en/pages/setting-up-a-github-pages-site-with-jekyll/adding-content-to-your-github-pages-site-using-jekyll#about-content-in-jekyll-sites) page and scroll down to **Adding a new post to your site**. Follow the instructions until step 8. Then choose for step 9 ```Commit directly to the main branch```. You are done! Give GitHub a few seconds to update your site, then check on ```YourUserName.github.io``` to see your website and open the post.

Another approach is to have a look at my site [mibrs](https://github.com/mibrs/mibrs.github.io), the repository is using the same theme. Just have a look how the posts and assets look like, copy and paste content as you please and then start to modify your own site as you like.

## Quick introduction to sound amplitudes and pitch/frequency

## Some more MAX patches with MIDI
Check the repository and clone its contents on your computer. You find several patches that you can try out and modify. Start with the patches containing MAX in their name. You may use Audacity to record one session using one of the patches. 

## Introduction to BEAP, and some patches
BEAP is a library of modules that make audio synthesis easier. Each module is built with many MAX and MSP objects, but the complexity is hidden and you only see an easy to use interface. 

Have a look at [this video](https://youtu.be/RhsQLUFLOAg)
![BEAP Video 1](221122BEAP1.png) to get an idea what you can do with BEAP.

When implementing the patch shown on the video, replace the ```MIDI IN``` module with a ```Keyboard``` module, you find it with BEAP/Inputs. For the outlets, hover over them with the mouse and their names and a short description will show up.

Commit message:

Added content for the MAX part

README.md, after:

# Session 7 - GitHub Pages with Jekyll, more MAX8 with MIDI and introduction to sound synthesis with BEAP

## How are files stored on a computer?

## Save your old website and setup Jekyll with GitHub Pages
So far you have created your website using basic HTML (content) and CSS (styling). The code was saved in a file named ```index.html```, and it was saved in a repository named YourUserName.github.io. By default, GitHub will look for such a file in a repository of that name and then load it when you enter the URL ```https.YourUserName.github.io``` in your webbrowser.

Creating a website with basic HTML and CSS gives you a lot of flexibility, but it is a tedious work, therefore we go for a simpler route as of now. 

First, we will rename the repository of your website to archive it and then continue to use the Jekyll framework on a new repository of name YourUserName.github.io to create our blog. Jekyll has the advantage that you do not need to bother about formatting the content, it comes with default styling "out of the box". HTML is replaced by a simple language called Markdown. It consists of simple tags that describe the function of the content (i.e. headline, link, image, ...). For example, a HTML```<h2>title</h2>``` headline becomes ```## text``` in Markdown.

For creating a post, you will need to place each post into a separate file inside a folder called ```_posts```. There are naming rules for the file and each file starts with a so called *YAML frontmatter* containing information like the author's name, a category to search posts later and more. Afterwards you add your content, using Markdown.

Before you start I suggest that you check out an existing repository using Jekyll ([example](https://github.com/mibrs/mibrs.github.io) is the repo for this website here), check the contents of the folders and look inside the files containing the posts. You can also copy and paste content, in particular the YAML Frontmatter and then make the changes of your own post.

Let's get started.

### Step 1 - Archive your exisiting website
Just open the repository containing your website and then follow steps 1 to 4. You will save it in a new repository under a different name.

![Rename repository](221122RenameGhRepo.png)

You can still access your site with the URL ```https:YourUserName.github.io/NewRepositoryName```.

![Access Repo on Web](221122GhAccessRepoOnWeb.png)

### Step 2 - Create your new website
Now we generate our new website with Jekyll.

#### Step 2.1 Find the Jekyll theme minima on GitHub.
All the styling inside Jekyll is defined inside themes. We are using the theme minima. You find it [here](https://github.com/jekyll/minima)

![Jekyll Minima on GitHub](221122JekyllMinimaRepo.png)

#### Step 2.2 Fork ("copy") the repository with the theme to your own user account and name the repo ```YourUserName.github.io```

Make sure that you are logged into your own GitHub account. Then follow the images to
1. Create your **Folk** of the repository
2. Name it in the form ```YourUserName.github.io```.

**ATTENTION:** User your own UserName instead of ```mbbbraehler``` shown on the screenshot!

![Fork Minima](221122ForkMinima.png)

![Rename Fork](221122NameFolkGh.png)

#### Step 2.3 Configure GitHub to use Jekyll with your theme
Next, go back and open the repository, then choose Pages on the left side menu and make the entries as shown. Do not forget to click on ```Save``` once you are finished.

![Configure Gh Pages](221122ConfigureGhPages.png)

#### Step 2.4 Finished
Now you need to wait for some time (seconds to minutes) before the changes are updated on the GitHub servers and you can access your website. The website contains a lot of content that you do not want to keep. Wait for Step 3 before you start to clean up and make the site your own.


### Step 3 - Create your first post
Next, open [this](https://docs.github.com/en/pages/setting-up-a-github-pages-site-with-jekyll/adding-content-to-your-github-pages-site-using-jekyll#about-content-in-jekyll-sites) page and scroll down to **Adding a new post to your site**. Follow the instructions until step 8. Then choose for step 9 ```Commit directly to the main branch```. You are done! Give GitHub a few seconds to update your site, then check on ```YourUserName.github.io``` to see your website and open the post.

Another approach is to have a look at my site [mibrs](https://github.com/mibrs/mibrs.github.io), the repository is using the same theme. Just have a look how the posts and assets look like, copy and paste content as you please and then start to modify your own site as you like.

## Quick introduction to sound amplitudes and pitch/frequency
[Ableton Learning Synths](https://learningsynths.ableton.com/) is a website that explains the basics of sound synthesise in an interactive way. The key properties of sound you should know about are
- amplitude
- pitch and frequency, and 
- envelope. 
They are explained on this site. So, go there, get to know the meaning of the four key terms and then come back here and try out the patches. Just clone the repository, unpack its content and identify the patches (extension maxpat).

## Some more MAX patches with MIDI
You find several starter patches that you can try out and modify. Start with the patches containing MAX in their name. You may use Audacity to record one session using one of the patches. 

## Introduction to BEAP, and some patches
BEAP is a library of modules that make audio synthesis easier. Each module is built with many MAX and MSP objects, but the complexity is hidden and you only see an easy to use interface. 

Have a look at [this video](https://youtu.be/RhsQLUFLOAg)
![BEAP Video 1](221122BEAP1.png) to get an idea what you can do with BEAP.

When implementing the patch shown on the video, replace the ```MIDI IN``` module with a ```Keyboard``` module, you find it with BEAP/Inputs. For the outlets, hover over them with the mouse and their names and a short description will show up.
